now on the Israeli Lebanese border
conflict because Hezbollah and Israel
have been urged to abide by UN
resolution 1701 which ended the 2006 War
it bars Hezbollah from operating between
the Lani River and the blue line The
Unofficial border with Israel now Israel
was instructed to remove all of its
troops from Lebanese territory however
neither side has ever fully complied
with the resolution since October the
7th has and Israeli forces have
exchanged fire on a near- daily basis
the armed group says it will only cease
hostilities if Israel withdraws from
Gaza more than 60,000 people have now
been evacuated from northern Israel
after months of crossborder attacks and
more than 90,000 have been displaced in
southern Lebanon last week the Israeli
Army killed a senior Hezbollah Commander
Talib Abdullah the group responded by
launching an unprecedented barrage of
rockets into Northern
Israel Elijah mager is a military and
political analyst and joins us now from
Paris good to have you with us on the
program real concern that the fighting
to the North of Israel is now the new
front so it's no surprise the US has
dispatched yet another Envoy to find a
way to deescalate the situation between
Israel and Hezbollah but using those
Lebanese politicians in the middle is
anybody going to
listen thank you for having me well no
nobody is going to listen unless Israel
stops the uh crimes against humanity and
war crimes against the Palestinians in
Gaza and that was very clear message
that was forwarded to the US Envoy Amos
hwain by saying stop the war in Gaza and
everything will stop and it is not in
the interest of the Israeli to see the
war ongoing when the Israeli military
spokesperson
uh Daniel haar General Daniel hagari
said that Hezbollah has launched
5,000 rocket Mage and drone Israel had
5,000 reason to start a war on Lebanon
but it is not in its advantage and not
in its capability to open two front
particularly when the Lebanese front is
not that easy to conquer or even to
attack without having a very strong uh
fireback on the Israeli
Army society and even existential threat
to Israel while the military's Focus
might now well be the areas of Northern
Gaza they have to a certain extent
advise the Israeli government that
there's very little left for them to do
in Gaza so they should pivot the
political establishment doesn't think as
you say uh that is the right move when
do you think there will be a time to
draw the line under Gaza for T
Aviv well the front on Lebanon is
costing the Israelis a lot it is really
uh degrading the reputation of Israel
more than what it is already by what the
Israelis have been doing in Gaza
nevertheless we have also heard from the
Israelis that they will continue the
operation in the next two weeks in RAF
because they have exhausted all the
options without without reaching any of
the objectives stated from the beginning
the resistance the Palestinian
resistance is still very strong is
engaged with with the Israelis in the
North in the South and in Rafa
inflicting heavy casualties on daily
basis that the Israelis are recognizing
there is no point in reaching any
objective in Gaza at the moment and this
is where we've seen the military and the
politicians blaming one another the
politician are saying to the military
you're not managing to achieve the
objective and the military are telling
the politician you have given up given
us objectives that are impossible to
reach at the end of the day we have
signals from prime minister bamin
Netanyahu that he is going toward the
deescalation and perhaps start a
negotiation with Hamas because he
understood that he's reaching a deadline
and a deadlock and indeed it what we're
hearing even from the American Envoy in
Lebanon is this line that Hamas have to
accept the deal Hamas have to accept the
ceasefire yet Hamas have told Al jazer
they've told various news outlets they
have accepted the Biden deal but the
narrative that the Americans keep
projecting is that they haven't and that
Israel has accepted it yet Israel is
still bombing
Gaza you're absolutely right we've heard
hamash twice saying that they have
accepted the deal we have heard Biden
saying this is an Israeli plan and he is
forwarding an Israeli plan not an
American plan but it is approved by the
Americans we have not heard Israel
saying this is our plan and we accept it
overtly on the contrary we've heard
bamin nany saying where there are many
inaccuracy in what Biden has forwarded
which is an Israeli plan that Biden
spend 80% of his speech trying to
convince these Israelis of a plan they
have forwarded now there is a point here
that Biden said in the Israeli plan that
there is a ceasefire that should be
established that the war should come to
an end because the Americans are still
protecting the Israelis they're not
acting against Israel they're telling
the Israeli we've giving you enough time
to do your War to Massacre whoever you
want to destroy Gaza and you have failed
to achieve your objectives time to sit
around the table and perhaps we can try
to deter Hamas in maybe switching their
arms on the humanitarian support or on
the reconstructions but that is
depending on the war that bamin
Netanyahu is conducting that is his
personal War afraid of falling with his
government so the time of ceasefire is
important to initiate the negotiation
and this is what the Israelis are
fearing in the power today because that
means the end of the war or at least the
sensation of hostility and I think the
Israelis are trying to find a way where
Benyamin Netanyahu can remain in power
and perhaps getting rid of ban mrid and
very briefly then uh Elijah I mean how
do you think the sort of conversation
that you have in Israel generally is
that they continually need a foe and if
gazer is nearly finished is the new foe
the ongoing fight with Hezbollah in the
north and can they really maintain this
and will at some stage Israel's allies
become tired of supporting Tel Aviv in
their ongoing narrative that they are
the victim and that they need to be
protected well killing
37,500 of which
16,500 children in Gaza and the total is
mainly civilians that is far from being
a victim particularly when when the ICC
is considering um the uh arrest warrant
against netanyahu's defense minister you
have gallant and when Antonio guz the UN
Secretary General it listed blacklisted
Israel along with Isis Al-Qaeda and Boko
Haram considering them as terrorist that
is really significant now they cannot
maintain a war with uh a many war with
Lebanon so we cannot imagine a bigger
War how devastating is going to be
exactly what uh the general Breck said
if nany who goes to war with Lebanon we
would wake up one day like a holocaust
an atomic bomb has exploded in the
center of Israel we shall see what
happens certainly in the coming hours OB
very delicate times in the Middle East
Elijah mager thanks so much for joining
us from
Paris make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer